# Bank_Customer_Segmentation
## Application of K-Means Clustering in the real world
### Cluster Analysis
It is basically a type of unsupervised learning method . An unsupervised learning method is a method in which we draw references from datasets consisting of input data without labeled responses. Generally, it is used as a process to find meaningful structure, explanatory underlying processes, generative features, and groupings inherent in a set of examples. Clustering is the task of dividing the population or data points into a number of groups such that data points in the same groups are more similar to other data points in the same group and dissimilar to the data points in other groups. It is basically a collection of objects on the basis of similarity and dissimilarity between them.

### Why Clustering ?
Clustering is very much important as it determines the intrinsic grouping among the unlabeled data present. There are no criteria for a good clustering. It depends on the user, what is the criteria they may use which satisfy their need. For instance, we could be interested in finding representatives for homogeneous groups (data reduction), in finding “natural clusters” and describe their unknown properties (“natural” data types), in finding useful and suitable groupings (“useful” data classes) or in finding unusual data objects (outlier detection). This algorithm must make some assumptions which constitute the similarity of points and each assumption make different and equally valid clusters.

### Clustering in Banking Customer Segmentation
Market segmentation is one of the most important area of knowledge-based marketing. In banks, it is really a challenging task as data bases are large and multidimensional. In the paper we consider cluster analysis, which is the methodology, the most often applied in this area.We use K-Means Clustering for this dataset. The K-means clustering algorithm is used to find groups which have not been explicitly labeled in the data. This can be used to confirm business assumptions about what types of groups exist or to identify unknown groups in complex data sets. Once the algorithm has been run and the groups are defined, any new data can be easily assigned to the correct group.
